---
layout: post
title:  "2024 W19: Rails Conf"
date:   2024-05-12 09:02:45 -0400
categories: weeknotes
tags: rails-conf packwerk detroit pizza devcontainer soul-mountain canadian-ruby
---

# Week 19 - Rails Conf

- Rails Conf 2024 is over! And it turns out next year will be the last one. I had a blast. I felt like I struck a nice balance between talk attendance and hallway track. I also quite enjoyed Detroit. Here are some highlights:

- Nadia's opening keynote about her journey building [StoryGraph](https://storygraph.io) was inspiring. So was Irina's closing keynote that featured stories of recent start ups using Rails. Irina's talk ended with a call to action in the form of 5 things the Rails community needs to do to remain relevant, and one of them was doing a better job of telling our story. When I look at the list of companies featured on the [Rails website](https://rubyonrails.org/) I see a lot of entrenched incumbents, which is great of course, but those companies feel like they are from a different era of Rails. On the technology side there is so much excitement around the future of Rails, so it was nice to see a new generation of Rails-based businesses emerging as well.

- The lightning talks on the final afternoon were really great. RubyCentral runs a "Ruby Scholars" program which provides mentorship for new rubyists. A lot of the lightning talks were by these scholars or other new Rubyists - most whom were also first time speakers. We heard talks about the journey of learning Ruby, some personal projects, job hunting - and my personal favourite: a talk from a new Ruby dev about troubleshooting her first production performance issue. This ended with her showing the PR she was planning to ship monday as a next step in her investigation. How cool is that!? The energy at these talks was amazing and they were a great way to finish things off before the closing keynote.

- Another _thread_ running through the conference was performance and profiling. John Hawthorn showed off the awesome Vernier profiler in his keynote. John Colson gave a really well-put-together narrative-driven talk about everything that can go wrong when using database transactions. That one should be essentials viewing for everyone when they start working with ActiveRecord. And Aaron closed things off talking about all the new performance optimizations in YJIT and Cruby.

- Shopify hosted Q&As about our teams' open source work, including a session where I discussed Dev Containers. It was great to see community interest in our work. A significant subset of the developers I talked to were government employees or contractors who are limited to using cloud based environments. So naturally Dev Container is of major interest for them. I have to admit this was not a demographic I considered when building the project, so it was very cool to chat with them.

- I spent _a lot_ of my hall track time discussing [Packwerk](https://github.com/Shopify/packwerk), Shopify's gradular modularization tool. Recently my team [published a blog post](https://railsatscale.com/2024-01-26-a-packwerk-retrospective/) discussing our ambivalence about Packwerk's effect on our code and culture. Many people wanted to discuss this post and know more. A lot of teams have heavily invested in Packwerk, from large teams like Gusto who have people dedicated to building an ecosystem of extensions based on the tool, to small teams of half-a-dozen developers that I spoke to. These talks really hammered home for me how vastly different the experience using Packwerk can be depending on team size, app size and app age. At Shopify we are a team of 1000s using Packwerk to gradually modularized a 20 year old, multi-million line app. Our experience is just _so_ different than a small team of developers using Packwerk to help enforce boundaries on a greenfield project. And there is a large spectrum between those two extremes. I am still processing my takeaways from these discussions, but its clear to me that more needs to be said on the future of Packwerk or alternatives to it at Shopify.

- I wish I saw more Canadian companies represented at Rails conf, especially considering the proximity to Canada this year. I did meet some Canadian devs, but I'd like to see a bigger turnout from Canadian teams using Rails (if you were there and I didn't meet you, my bad). Toronto, Montreal and Winnepeg have rebooted Ruby meetups post-pandemic (and perhaps other cities I'm unaware of do too), so there is an appetite for Ruby content in Canada. Now that Ruby Central is shifting focus to regional conferences, maybe it is time for a Canadian Ruby / Rails conference.

- Detroit was cool! I was struck by how _gigantic_ the city felt. It's neither dense nor sprawling. But the architecture feels monolithic. We stayed at the Rennaisance Center, a complex of 5 buildings, 271 floors and 5.5 million square feet of floor space - including its own convention facilities. There is nothing remotely comparable in Toronto, despite it being 5 or 6 times larger by population. The conference was held 5 minutes down the street at another massive convention space.

- Detroit pizza remains undefeated. This style became trendy in Toronto about 10 years ago, and there are many good spots for it here. But it was cool to finally get it from source, and it did not disappoint.

- I travelled by train. My trip began with a quick ride on the regional train that stops beside my house. Then a much longer ride on the national train line to Windsor. Followed by an uber ride from the train station to the bus station in Windsor (absurd). And finally a bus across the border through the Detroit-Windsor tunnel, which makes a stop beside the Renaissance Center. Total travel time around 6 hours. This seemed preferable to the hour or more (in the wrong direction) it takes me to get to the Toronto airport, and then everything involved with an international flight. The trip to Detroit was painless, but on the trip home my train was delayed by 2 hours so that was annoying.

- Travelling gets me in the mood to read about travelling. I packed Gao Xingjian's Soul Mountain for the trip. Loosely, it's the story of a walking journey through Sichuan province and down the Yangtze river. It's an unclassifiable mixture of autobiography, fiction, philosophical reflection, anthropology and history. It's the kind of thing I'd bring to a desert island. I read ~50 pages on the train to Windsor, but naturally didn't have any time to read during the conference. I was too energized to read on the way home and spent the whole time coding. But I am excited to get back into it this coming week.
