---
layout: post
title:  "Weeknotes 4: Prince Edward County"
date:   2024-05-26 07:36:21 -0400
categories: weeknotes
tags: pec soul-mountain chaos
---

# Weeknotes 1 - Prince Edward County

- I missed a week! But that's okay, I am going to try to make this a habit even if I miss a week. I assume no one is reading this anyway - which reminds me I should at least start posting these on Mastodon...

- Since getting back from Rails Conf my personal life has been really busy. We have been flirting with selling our condo and buying a house, and ultimately I think we will hold off on that for now, but it has spurred a big round of spring cleaning and purging - so that has been taking up a lot of free time.

- We spent last weekend in Prince Edward County visiting our friends and their 5 month year old baby. Visiting the County (as locals refer to it) has become a regular thing since these friends moved out there at the start of the pandemic. It's such a wonderful place. Our friends have a beautiful home and a seemingly very idyllic lifestyle (now with baby!). Everytime I'm out there I feel the urge to move - but ultimately it feels a little too far - both from family and from Toronto. One day perhaps.

- I finished Soul Mountain. I love this book so much. It's in the elite category of books that I finish and immediately want to re-read. Nominally, its about the author getting out of Bejing to avoid some trouble he is in with the party, and embarking on a walking journey around southwestern China and down the Yangtze. But it's told in a series of ~80 vignettes, many of which are only loosely connected to what comes before or after. The narration altnerantes between first person "I" chapters and second person "You" chapters, which seem to represent different sides of the narrator's psyche. I am tempted to say the I chapters are more intellectual and contemplative, and the You chapters (which often feature a female companion "Her") are more anxious and troubled with worldy things - but such a simplistic analysis does not do the book justice at all.

    The chapters have a way ending with sudden shifts in perspective or the introduction of unexpected events and seemingly unrelated digressions. There's a long chapter which is a description of the "Qichung Snake", supposedly China's deadliest snake. After pages of description of the snake and various people's encounters with it - including a life saving arm amputation - we suddenly shift to a beautiful description of the idyllic scene at the side of the highway where the narrator is standing - children playing at hunting, a woman bathing at the riverside as the sun goes down - only to close with: "But of course, none of this has anything to do with the Qichung Snake". Multiple chapters end with the narrator lost - on the mountainside, in a forest, in some ruins - only to pick up the thread later like nothing happened. And later on, things get meta and the narrative style itself becomes the subject of some of the chapters. One of them takes the form of a dialogue between the narrator and one of his critics, who debate whether the book should be categorized as "western" or "eastern" in style and ends with narrator saying: "Reading this chapter is optional but as you've read it you've read it".

    So the book could be frustrating for some, as it actively works against presenting any kind of unified narrative or through line. For me, that's what makes it so intoxicating. Ultimately, I take the book to be about our conflicting desires for individuality and companionship, and the falsity of the narratives we use to constitute our "self" - themes which are brought to life by the disjointed and self-contradictory structure of the narrative. I could say lot more, but I will avoid in depth discussion of books in weeknotes.

- I also read [Chaos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CHAOS:_Charles_Manson,_the_CIA,_and_the_Secret_History_of_the_Sixties), about the Manson murders. I usually don't read true crime and this was a bit of an impulse buy a couple weeks ago, but I find the end-of-the-60s era fascinating and also enjoy reading about the insane stuff the CIA was up to in those days. The book was okay. It's the story of the author's investigation of the Manson murders over a period of 10 or so years, originally for a magazine piece on the 30th anniversary of the crimes. It was a challening read in some ways because there are two narratives here, the narrative of the crime and of the author's investigation, and neither are told in a linear way. So we might get a long description of person X and how they were connected with the crime, only to then have the author say "but I didn't know any of that when I first interviewed X", at which point we go back in time and follow the author's investigation. What is meant to be gained by this narrative structure? It's kind of an interesting counterpoint to Soul Mountain, where the narrative structure serves to accentuate the content and themes of the book - but that's an apples and oranges comparison. The book presented a compelling argument about the holes and irregularities in the official narrative of the case presented at the trial and in Bugliosi's Helter Skelter. But the ending of the book which presented some alternative ideas, including a 50 page chapter (the books longest!) rehasing CIA mind control experiments without making a compelling connection to Manson, was quite weak.
