---
layout: post
title:  "Weeknotes 5: Slow Week"
date:   2024-06-03 14:21:35 -0400
categories: weeknotes
tags: rails devcontainer jays sebald austerlitz twitter
---

# Weeknotes 5 - Slow Week

- Meta: I decided to change from numbering weeknotes by the week of the year (eg 2024 Week 22) to just begining with 1 and incrementing every week. I think it's a bit simpler but the decision is somewhat arbitrary.

- Rails 7.2 beta has been released! This is exciting for me personally, as I have made a lot of contributions to this release. This release includes the Dev Container generator which I have been working on for the last few months. I also contributed some smaller features like `ActiveRecord::Core#inspect` configuration and `ActiveSupport::ErrorReporter#unexpected` which raises an error in dev and test but logs in production. And I shipped quite a few fixes for defects I encountered while upgrading Shopify's monolith to Rails edge, which helps improve the stability of the release. It's been a fun experience working so much on open source this year and its a cool feeling to see your work get released to the community.

- The flipside is that now I am between projects at work. Working on the Rails default Dev Container and the ecosystem surrounding it has been my main focus for the last few months. Now I have to get going on what comes next. I find these times between projects challenging. It's the feeling of just having pushed a big rock up a hill and looking down to see an even bigger rock waiting for you. Usually I am good at what I call "productive procrastination" where I work through my personal backlog of valuable-but-not-project-sized tasks for a while before fully diving in to my next big piece of work. I think that's a pretty healthy practice. But last week I had a uniquely unfocused and unproductive week where I didn't manage even to do a bit of that. That's ok and not worth dwelling on. I had a restful weekend and was able to hit the ground running this morning (I am writing on Monday afternoon) and feel I already accomplished more today than I did all last week.

- I went to the Blue Jays game on Friday night. It was my fourth game of the year so far and the first time I've seen the Jays win (and in extra innings!). But boy are the Jays bad. The last few years it felt like they were a potentially good team who were under-performing. But this year I feel like they are just a genuinely last place team. I still enjoy attending games but I have not watched a game on TV since opening week.

- My mood for re-reading old favourites continues so I read Sebald's Austerlitz last week. Sebald's writing had a huge impact on me when I first encountered it nearly a decade ago, and he is probably my favourite "modern" author. Austerlitz has always been the odd one out in his ouevre for me - it's his book that most resembles an actual novel with a sustained throughline and begining-middle-end structure. That's not a bad thing per sé, but it does seem - to me at least - that his style works better in the more fragmentary structure of his earlier books and that his knack for digression actually works against him in this more conventional book. It also might just be that Austerlitz is more complex than his other books, and takes more sustained focus to keep everything going on in your head. I do find myself liking it more each time I read it.

  Sebald's style has come down to earth a little bit for me over time. After initially feeling completely overwhelmed and in awe of it, I feel like I can see the mechanics behind it a bit more now. Recently I read Eastbound by Maylis de Kerangal (good not great) which is another instance of the "long sentences that are mostly just lists of things" style which is annoying and hard to miss once you've noticed it. Whenever I encounter this (unfortunately that's pretty often) I think fondly of Sebald, who I believe is a long-sentence-writer par-excellence. So I was bummed to notice this tick in Austerlitz as well. Not to the degree I see it in Kerangal and others, but still.. probably too much. Sebald has another tick where he uses the locution "not a living soul" when describing a scene (eg "On the train platform, there was not a living soul about."). Austerlitz is full of this. Still, I believe there's a self-aware humour that counterbalances his style, which otherwise could easily verge on overwrought. Austerlitz contains one of my favourite of these moments, when Austerlitz (the character) discusses his view on the nature of Time. This dizzying multi-page philosophical reflection on the ultimate un-reality of Time is finally interrupted by the narrator saying "It was 4:30 and we needed to catch the train".

- I have been spending a bit more time on Twitter recently. The Twitter site is hopelessly broken. I am locked out of my personal (anonymous) Twitter account which I have had for a long time, and the password reset feature is broken. So, I have been using my "professional" account, which I mostly use to follow developers, philosophers and scientists. My experience is maybe not as profoundly negative as I would expect - it's nice to see my colleagues and others in the Rails community posting about their work. But there is still so much total nonesense on there, which is even more obvious on an account where I follow so much work related content. For example, I saw an earnest and very confient post about how Shopify had migrated all its Rails applications to Remix. What the hell? I have also become aware that there are "influencer" types who tweet and stream about being a developer - I really shouldn't be surprised, but I would have been happier to remain ignorant of such things. One of these people recently had a big public argument with DHH about "Rails is slow" and the efficacy of using SSR to build a calendar app. It's an uncanny feeling seeing this social media and streamer culture which revels in "drama" being applied to your own line of work.

- I cooked a lot! Some closse friends of mine recently had a baby, so I had the idea to cook some prepared meals for them that they can freeze and eat at their convenience. I made two lasagnas and two trays of Jerk Chicken Mac & Cheese. These are both dishes I have cooked many many times. Five years ago this would have been a day's work, the food would have come out far worse and I would have had a giant mess to clean up. But I have really developed my skills in the kitchen to the point where I can multi-task and throw both these meals together and return the whole kitchen to normal in just a couple hours. Cooking for friends is one of life's great pleasures =)
