---
layout: post
title:  "Weeknotes 6: NYC"
date:   2024-06-12 07:11:05 -0400
categories: weeknotes
tags: nyc mahler open-city sleepwalkers colima docker
---


# Weeknotes 6 - NYC

- The easiest way to get working with Dev Containers is to use Docker Desktop. But of course, Docker Desktop requires a license. So I have been interested in finding an open source alternative that works nicely with the Dev Container extension in VSCode. The most common Docker alternative for Mac that I am aware of is [Podman](https://podman.io/). However, I have not been able to get Podman working nicely with the Dev Containers extension in VSCode. Things seem to break down at the podman-compose step, which either runs out of the wrong directory or with the wrong opts. So, it has been in my backlog to either investigate that issue or investigate other FOSS alternatives to Docker Desktop we could use with Dev Containers.

  This week I found the answer in [Colima](https://github.com/abiosoft/colima). [Lima](https://github.com/lima-vm/lima) (**Li**nux on **Ma**c) is a Linux emulator for Mac. Colima (**Co**ntainers on **Li**nux on **Ma**c) is built ontop of Lima and provides a very simple setup for running containers in Linux on your Mac. Essentially, you just need to install Colima, install the Docker CLI, change your Docker context to Colima (`docker context use colima`) and do `colima start` and you are ready to go. I was able to get a Dev Container working in VSCode with Colima in under an hour (probably closer to 30 minutes though I didn't time myself)! I will write a longer post about this soon, probably on Rails at Scale blog.

- On June 20th I will be speaking at the Toronto Ruby Meetup about Dev Containers for Rails (location TBD). I have a rough plan of what I will present, but I need to take some time to make slides and organize my thoughts. I am also working on a blog post about Dev Container (or perhaps two) for the Shopify Rails at Scale blog. I started on that during the week of Rails conf and got it mostly done, but since then we made some changes (Dev Containers no longer a default for Rails 7.2, for example) so I will need to go back and rework some things. At Shopify people sometimes use the phrase "Do things, tell people". I tend to be quite good at doing things, but a little shy about telling people. I am realizing that as my career advances I will need to get better at that, so taking the opportunity to give talks and write blog posts is a good way to work on that. These weeknotes are also a way of putting myself out here a bit more.

- I only worked half the week, then my wife and I went to New York City for a quick vacation. We were there from Thursday to Monday. It's been a while since I was in New York - and getting off the train at Penn Station I immediately had a moment of horror: "Do I actually like New York?" But as soon as I got out of mid-town I quickly remembered how great of a city it is. We stayed in the Bowery, where I haven't spent time before, and it was a nice jumping off point to get around the city. We did a lot of walking - maybe 80000 steps in four days.

- This trip was built around tickets to see Mahler 2 at Lincoln Center on Friday night. Seeing Mahler's 2nd live has been a bucket list item of mine for a while. And NY Phil has a storied history playing this piece so it was hard to turn down the chance to see it. There is no other piece of music where I feel totally on-the-edge-of-my-seat throughout the entire thing (80-90 minutes!). I love it deeply, in spite of (because of?) finding aspects of it hard to grasp. The structure of the first movement is weird and episodic and repetitive - with other symphony first movements I know well I generally can "follow the plot" and anticipate what comes next, but this movement still feels off kilter and surprising to me after listening countless times. I also find the 2nd movement hard to fit into the context of the rest of the piece - it's too different (intentionally so I suppose).

  The performance on Friday was great. It leaned on the brassier side, which is right for this piece in my opinion. Similar to the 2nd (tho to a lesser degree) I find don't always find the 3rd movement convincing, but here the build up to famous "cry of despair" was intense and I really felt this was the emotional core of the performance. In the fifth, the off-stage band was amazing - a highlight actually. The band's energy was frantic, yet still remained in the background and didn't overwhelm the orchestra. That effect is not captured well on many recordings.

  On the down side, I felt like the orchestra reached their height at the finale of the orchestral part of the 5th movement, and that the choral finale did not reach the same peak. It's a matter of interpretation, but I strongly prefer when everything builds to the choral finale as a giant climactic moment - but here it felt a little eclipsed by what came earlier, and a little too fast honestly. Nevertheless, it was an amazing experience and I immediately wanted to buy tickets to see it again Saturday, but they were sold out.

- I visited Moma for the first time. Lots of fun. I saw Jackson Pollock's [One: Number 31](https://www.moma.org/collection/works/78386?artist_id=4675&page=1&sov_referrer=artist). My first time seeing a Pollock that large. I guess Pollock is a bit of a "meme" now, but seeing this piece in person really busted through any preconceived notions I had and hit me on a visceral level. Art like that really just doesn't work in reproduction - especially on a computer screen. But in person it has a very striking "oceanic" quality. It's always interesting how strongly some famous artists "live up to hype" (for me: Van Gogh) whereas others don't do much (for me: Picasso). I was also excited to see the work of Henry Darger, although sadly only one small piece was on display.

- I picked up Open City by Teju Cole to read on this trip. It's a book I have wanted to read but rarely see on shelves at bookstores (which seems surprising given its notoriety). So it was serendipitous that I happened on it at the book store while browsing on my lunch break the day before the trip. I can't explain why, but it's important for me to start a new book at the start of a trip - it just would not do to take a book already in progress - and all the better if the book somehow relates to the trip.

  In Open City Julius, a Nigerian-American psychiatry resident, narrates his walking journeys around Manhattan over the course of a year. In the opening pages I was struck by how overtly Cole's style was nodding to Sebald, to the point I was slightly worried I would struggle to enjoy it. But Cole quickly settles into his own voice. Long portions of the novel involve stories related to Julius by people he encounters on his walks. These parts actually reminded me a lot of Rachel Cusk's Outline trilogy (or more fair to say that Outline reminds me of Open City, which I believe was written first). These were some of the book's best passages - especially the couple long conversations Julius has with a pair of disaffected North African immigrants that make up the central portion of the book.

  And this book pulls off something I really admire in writing. Events happen later in the book that make you re-assess everything that came before. This book turned out to be something quite different than what I expected. It gets called a masterpiece of autofiction, but Julius is a fleshed out character and definitely not a stand in for Cole, so that classification can't be right. I enjoyed Open City a lot and will read it again.

- I have also been reading The Sleepwalkers by Christopher Clark, about the lead up to the First World War. This book compares favourably to Margaret MacMillan's The War That Ended Peace on the same topic, which I read last year. As I recall, MacMillan frames her story primarily around the characters of the King, Kaiser and Czar - especially the Kaiser. Clark's book is less character focused, and calls into question how much influence on foreign policy each of the monarchs really had. Because he is less concerned with telling the story of individuals he can bring in more players when their parts are relevant, and drop them afterwards - so we get exposed to a much larger cast of characters. One theme of the book is how rivalries and dysfunction between agencies and individuals _within_ each nation contributed to an atmosphere of secrecy and paranoia that percipitated the war. And, where I felt MacMillan was particularly harsh on the Germans, I think Clark raises interesting questions about how German actions were typically interpreted in very uncharitable light compared to equivalent actions by France, Russia and others in the decades before the war. I am only half way through this but I am looking forward to picking it back up now that I am back from my trip.

- On the topic of books I bought a few in New York. On one hand, I sometimes feel silly buying books while travelling. They are cumbersome to take home, and these days, except for truly rare things, most things could be found online. On the other hand, I like supporting local bookstores wherever I am, and I also feel a connection to books I bought on a trip. For example, on my first trip to New York in 2010 I bought a copy of Wittgenstein's Remarks on the Foundations of Mathematics at a bookstore near Columbia, which I still have on the shelf behind my desk. On this trip I bought a copy of Bakhtin's The Problems of Dostoevsky's Poetics at [Mast Books](https://mastbooks.com/) in the east village. This is genuinely rare and likely out of print, so it was an easy purchase. I also bought a very cheap copy of Paddy Fermor's The Broken Road, the final book in a trilogy about his walking journey from Holland to Istanbul, which I have been reading at a pace of one volume per year.

- Food! We had some nice meals on this trip. One standout was the duck curry at [Fish Cheeks](https://www.fishcheeksnyc.com/) - I need to recreate this at home. Before the concert we ate at [The Smith](https://thesmithrestaurant.com/) across the street, a good meal overall but the star was the calamari appetizer - one of the best I've ever had. We ate quite a few pizza slices - the best were from [Best Pizza](https://www.bestpizzawilliamsburg.com/) in Williamsburg and [Scarr's](https://scarrspizza.square.site/s/stories/menu) in the Bowery. I also got to try Xi'an Famous Food's chilli-cumin lamb noodles finally. This is a dish I am in love with, and Xi'an Famous Foods is known for it. Very very good.

