---
layout: post
title:  "Weeknotes 2: Ottawa"
date:   2024-05-04 07:17:03 -0400
categories: weeknotes
tags: ottawa rails-upgrades rails-contributions golf
---

# Weeknotes 3 - Ottawa

- I'm in Ottawa. We are here for a friends weddding. My wife and I came a day early, and I spent Friday at the Shopify office with some of my teammates and had dinner with them afterwards. All things considered I had a pretty productive day. I enjoy going to the office and go a couple times a month in Toronto, but I definitely find I take a hit to my productivity when I do.

- It was my turn on our team's maintenance rotation this week. One of the main tasks we do every week is upgrade Shopify's Core monolith to the latest edge of Rails. Sometimes this is smooth, and sometimes it requires a lot of work. Often the most painful upgrades happen when the monolith is using a private API or monkey patching part of Rails that has been changed (don't monkey patch Rails!).

  Other times we find defects on the edge of Rails, which happened this week, although the defect was very minor. [A new feature](https://github.com/rails/rails/commit/76966f9) was added to Rails to allow `ActiveSupport::TestCase` to report when a test runs with no assertions. Very handy. However, the implementation caused `ActiveSupport::TestCase` to be loaded too early in the initialization process. When `ActiveSupport::TestCase` is loaded it kicks off callbacks, and any future callbacks added will be run immediately. Because of that we could not boot our test environment, since we had callbacks running that contained code that was not loaded yet. The solution is to wrap the new configuration for `ActiveSupport::TestCase` in a callback itself. You can see [my solution here](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/51682).

- I [published a blog post](https://railsatscale.com/2024-04-30-fixing-a-footgun-in-activerecord-core-inspect/) on our team's blog, my first time doing that. The post is about a new feature I added for Rails 7.2, which allows you to configure the output of the `inspect` method on Active Record models. I added this feature back in November in response to a nasty performance issue a team encountered, but what I really like about it is the improvement to DX. It's always bothered me how noisy the output of `inspect` can be for large models. I don't need to know the value of every single attribute! So this feature can be used to tidy that up and have a much more readable output. Check out the post =)

- I have had a lot less time to read this week than I normally do. We have had the dog with us, so I have been going on more walks and spending more time generally just hanging out with her. Plus driving to Ottawa and spending social time with coworkers. But I also have been more in the mood to program, so I have been working more and also working on some side projects in the morning before work, which is the time I typically read. I am still finishing up Auto-da-fé and not sure what I will read next.

- I golfed on Wednesday morning, my first time of the year. Actually my first time in two years - a bad ankle injury sidelined me for most of the summer last year and I didn't get around to golfing once I recovered. I enjoy golf as way to practice disinterested focus. As I've gotten older and (slightly) less competitive, I have started to appreciate doing things I am not good at - that I have no real talent for. I try to focus and play well. (It is amazing how much of a difference being truly focused makes when playing golf.) I usually play quite poorly, so I _try_ to let go of whatever negative emotions that brings up. Try. Just being on the course, taking in the early morning air is enjoyable in itself.

  I tend to work later evenings on Wednesday night, so I can spend some time pairing with my co-workers in Japan. So my plan this summer is to play some rounds on Wednesday mornings at the city course down the street from me.

- What I'm listening to this week:

<iframe style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/0WbMK4wrZ1wFSty9F7FCgu?utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="352" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>
